# Legal Disclaimer

This whitepaper document is not an offer to sell, a solicitation or a request of an offer to obtain any digital assets. Cypher is making this document exclusively to provide specifications of the Cypher blockchain to the developers and the public at large. If and when [Cypher blockchain](https://cypherchain.org) offers for sale any native coins/tokens (or a Simple Agreement for Future Tokens), it will do so through definitive offering documents, including a disclosure document and risk factors.

Those definitive documents also are expected to include an updated version of this whitepaper document, which may differ significantly from the current version. If and when [Cypher blockchain](https://cypherchain.org) makes such an offering in the United States, the offering most likely will be available just to accredited investors.

Nothing in this whitepaper document should be treated or read as a guarantee or promise of how Cypher's business or the native coins will develop or the utility or value of the coins/tokens. This technical document outlines current plans, which could change at its discretion, and the success of which will depend on many factors outside Cypher blockchain control, including market-based factors and factors within the data and cryptocurrency industries, among others. Any statements about future events are based solely on the analysis done by the Cypher blockchain and the issues described in the technical document. That this analysis may prove to be partially correct or incorrect during the development of the [Cypher blockchain](https://cypherchain.org).
